sponsored by filmora and easy-to-use
video editing software that's ideal for
beginners stick around to find out more
command received a distress signal
moments broader-based went offline Daisy
played
[Music]
having recently completed the demon
genocide simulator that is doom eternal
while suffering only a mere two heart
attacks and a partial rearrangement of
my rectum by Marauders these things I
thought it might be fun and good for the
algorithm who knows to check out the
film adaptations of the doom video game
franchise there was of course the
self-titled movie from 2005 a 60 million
dollar critical and commercial flop
stuffed with plenty of cheese and ham
courtesy of Dwayne the rock Johnson
Semper Fi mother and featuring a first
person shooter section that wouldn't
look out of place in an avaible movie
considering how scary that guy is I
probably shouldn't have made that joke
and more recently there was last year's
straight-to-dvd doom annihilation which
is to the doom games as hunt down the
freeman is to half-life so good are you
fall serious how is this a game that's
been made it's blindingly obvious that
the budget was roughly that of
Bethesda's QA department because
everything smacks at being cheap from
the guns that are conspicuously made of
plastic
the soldiers gear that looks like it was
fished out of a bin behind an abandoned
laser tag the camera being visible in
the actors glasses several times the
makeup and blood effects which they
probably stole from a Halloween party
the tacky looking rubbery demon costumes
the use of different colored lighting to
try to mask the repeated use of the same
areas weird choices for sound effects
like a rotary spooling sound over a
weapon that clearly doesn't have a
rotating barrel
I could go on but you get the idea
although to be fair some of the CGI is
surprisingly decent and certainly better
than some other higher-value productions
I do sympathise with their situation and
it seems like they were trying to do a
lot with limited resources but honestly
sometimes less is more or at least
that's what I tell my girlfriend the
shoestring approach means there's no big
names this time around and the saying
you get what you pay for definitely
applies in this case with their
performances ranging from possible to
wooden and stiff as tree bids dildo this
is partly due to the writing which is
where the film really should the bed
it's bad that's an understatement
the cast of characters okay they're not
even characters just cliches with names
that you'll immediately forget are
utterly bland this is especially true of
the female lead I don't care that they
decided to have a doomed girl we respect
the women's on this channel and doom guy
himself would make for a pretty poor
movie protagonist let's not kid
ourselves otherwise but he's capable of
expressing far more emotion and
personality than this plank without even
showing his face whereas doom girl has
approximately three facial expressions
and no personality of which to speak how
do you make Rea them Skywalker looked
like a complex character although
occasionally the robot malfunctions the
script feels like a rehash of about six
different better sci-fi movies and is
full of well video game movie dialogue
worn out tropes nonsensical moments and
moronic characters I could have sworn I
was watching a porn parody but that I
could have at least enjoyed oh and it
tries to be funny but fails except when
it wasn't trying
this is another one of those movies that
I could probably rip on for an entire
hour but I just don't have the patience
it's a video game movie they're always
what did you expect nah that ain't gonna
fly with me yes a lot of them have been
laughably bad your life too bad you die
but there's no reason they inevitably
have to be with plenty of examples of
ones that are at least decent kinder so
that doesn't excuse it from criticism to
its credit I suppose doom annihilation
is closer to the law of the games unlike
the 2005 movie it at least actually has
demons they look like fossilized devil
turds but they're there there's plenty
of references that those who are
familiar with the games will pick up on
although I'm not sure that's a good
thing because they sometimes get them
wrong and while there's absolutely
nothing wrong with putting in Easter
eggs like this here they're unbearably
forced an awful nightmare if you are a
fan of the franchise this film will
probably piss you off more than anything
else and there's no reason anybody else
should watch it except for people like
us who enjoy laughing at flaming poop
mountains like this and there's more
than a few laughs to be had but before
we rip and tear into this demonic
abomination it's time to talk about this
video sponsor film or a nine trying to
start a YouTube channel from scratch and
getting to grips with video editing
software can be really intimidating I
know it was for me
filmora 9 is an easy-to-use video
editing software designed specifically
with beginners in mind and is a great
choice if you want to make youtube your
thing but have no prior knowledge of how
to make videos I actually edited this
integration entirely in filmora
on the same day I downloaded it which
should give you an indication of how
easy it is to pick up and comprehensive
tutorials are included to help get you
started if you're feeling adventurous it
has tons of built-in preset effects such
as filters music and animated elements
which are free to use and if you're in
need of useful images video footage and
sound effects film or annoyance online
stock library film stocks has a wide
selection of assets available for
download and it's free to try so you've
got nothing to lose by giving it a go
which you can do by downloading it via a
link in the video
description and pin comment down below
and if you do you'll be helping to
support my channel so thanks to Phil
Mora for sponsoring this video and with
that out of the way let's rip and tear
until it is done the film takes place on
a research facility on one of the moons
of Mars Phobos or Fobus I'm getting
those hunt down the Freeman vibes
already there live from Black Mesa
anyway it's owned by the United
Aerospace Corporation not the Union
Aerospace Corporation I guess it makes
more sense grammatically but how could
they get that wrong anyway United
Airways is carrying out experiments in
teleportation technology they send this
volunteer through a portal between the
facility and a similar one on earth but
the results are roughly akin to watching
this film we're then introduced to dune
girl very subtly named Joan d'Arc and
her fellow colonial marine knock offs on
board a ship carrying them from Earth to
Phobos except they're flying towards the
Sun which makes no sense as for the team
we've got Asian Vasquez ripoff Lee other
woman Carly Ossie man and Hudson
imitator Winslow who exists to provide
some comic relief and occasionally say
what we're all thinking black guy Logan
who's black says [__] and
refuses to wear a helmet so he can
represent with his bandana and some
interchangeable red shirts they don't
act like real soldiers and I've seen
paintball teams more convincing and
competent than this and certainly better
equipped even their comedic interactions
are a lifeless rendition of the banter
they're obviously trying to emulate from
much better ensembles there's also the
pilot who's an [__] for no good
reason is always drinking on the job and
is a perverted panty thief imagine an
alcoholic Joker from Mass Effect but
with none of the charm the captain who
is terrible at his job tolerates a
ridiculous amount of insubordination and
is essentially two days from retirement
in case you were wondering if he would
live through this and Science Guy stone
who dated doom girl ten years ago before
she moved on to some other sim the
captain explains to them that the Phobos
base is divided into three levels and
Stone tells them that it's powered by a
fusion reactor because nothing bad ever
happened with nuclear power
what the moon poses more risk than the
reactor what do you mean
well Fobus is one of the most unstable
environments in the solar system that's
why they call it the doomed moon cool
even for scientists experimenting with
alien technology knowingly putting a
fusion reactor on a moon that unstable
seems proof he's stupid
they've been sent to provide security
for the base but it's essentially a form
of punishment for doom girl we messed up
somehow in the past and the others
aren't too happy about going along for
the ride
stone let us know that she'd been
promoted to lieutenant which is a bit
weird considering she's being punished
for insubordination why wasn't she
demoted and sent with them as a grunt
while Lee finds her lucky pair of
Underpants because that's the thing the
captain records a message to his family
telling them that he's resigning after
this mission and is coming home as if
this character needed any more red flags
he also mentions how it's impossible to
dream during cryo sleep even though it's
very heavily implied that doom girl was
dreaming during her cryo sleep so
bollocks to that back on phobos chief
scientist and discount Richard II grant
doctor petrukha which is a reference to
doom 3 wants to continue the experiments
despite what just happened because he's
our stock mad scientist who insist that
there's too much at stake he won't let
bureaucrats get in the way of progress
blah blah blah you get the trill so with
the help of rookie dr. Veronica he puts
himself through the portal but of course
something goes wrong the base loses
power
this guy gets killed by something and
some nasty things come out the gate by
the way these scenes are ordered it's
heavily implied that this happens right
before the soldiers land at the base the
pilot hails the base after he's landed
and not beforehand which is weird but
alright he receives no response but
stone just happens to know that there's
an emergency entrance built into the
landing pad because he read everything
he could find about the base because he
likes to read ok this is just one of
many moments of plot convenience Mars
command tells them to enter the base and
restore the power why is it important to
get the base online oh maybe
life-support systems or the fusion
reactor remember that some of the
experiments are streaming high-risk and
required very precise monitoring even
the smallest change to render years of
work of progress
meaningless or that you know priorities
and then they rip a scene straight out
of event horizon command received a
distress signal moments broader-based
went offline now we've been unable to
verify live contact the TDRs did receive
this single transmission Daisy played
[Music]
[Applause]
what the holes that are you kidding me
there's references and homage is and
then there's just outright plagiarism
the soldiers get suited and booted with
their Starship Troopers skateboarding
gear and the captain packs a
double-barrel shotgun he just happens to
have brought with him
can't believe you'll bring it out we
cash you got your toy and why is he not
reprimanding him for not calling him sir
can he at least try to act like a real
officer
so they enter the base and there's a
gaming keyboard stuck on the back wall
why it looks so out of place did they
seriously think this looked good the
scientist sees that the reserve power is
at only 2% which gives them
approximately 90 minutes to restore the
power otherwise the reactor will
meltdown and the moon will explode who's
the fire moon in this place yeah my
thoughts exactly
also we don't know what his specialty is
or what he's doing here but apparently
he can just do everything sciency
because he's the Science Guy so they
split into two teams one heading to the
reactor and one to the server
hold up captain I don't think I should
air to go I swear Winslow if you're
about to say what I think you're gonna
say I'm going to shoot you in the face
what you may have been lacks in
asserting your authority before but you
can't do that they move through the
corridors which are too brightly lit to
instill any sense of tension and they
use heads-up displays that bear no
relation to the eyeglasses they're
wearing on level two they find their
first body
sergeant William black [__] don't
understand I do
I understood that reference
interchangeable expendable number one
find some bloody writing on the wall
which he identifies as being similar to
Sumerian they mentioned a program that
lets you learn stuff during cryo sleep
but he didn't use it to learn Sumerian
so he can't read it and it never gets
brought up again so it's completely
pointless why did they even bother to
include this so they asked the ship's AI
Daisy to translate it have come to
reclaim what is ours through Wrath will
come justice this is culture this is mad
scientist culture when the surf when the
comic relief Ozzy is the most sensible
character you know you've something up
the pilot runs out of booze which is the
first time any of the good guys have
suffered a traumatic setback a very
obvious jump-scare causes asian girl to
break off from the rest of the team
without telling them if he triggered the
life-form detector wouldn't they all be
constantly going off do they not have a
way to mark friendlies like in aliens
that's useless rosetta stone comes
across a smurf zombie and he becomes the
first casualty subverting expectations I
see three to one would you just run out
in front of nervous gun wielding
soldiers this is what Marco Polo is for
asian girl encounters another zombie and
doesn't hesitate to shoot it while Ozzy
man takes out the one that killed
Sumerian boy dr. John Carmack genomicist
what like a human why are you so
surprised by that can you not see what
he's wearing of course it's not dead yet
because this is a horror movie remember
that's what I'm trying to tell you we
have a situation
[Applause]
when the soldier supposed to be keeping
watch these guys couldn't guard a cat
flap and what about the motion sensors
do they all spontaneously say no so they
get attacked by hordes of zombies which
are just the same 5 or 6 extras recycled
over and over they even wear the same
clothes for Christ's sake
side note why didn't they encounter any
zombies on the first level which
includes the living quarters and should
therefore be full of people did everyone
just shuffle downstairs after they died
they really use that same line twice you
deserve to die for that the action that
follows as in the rest of the film is
decent when you consider the budget they
were working on but still nothing to
write home about she kills some of them
with a chainsaw because it wouldn't be
doom without a chainsaw she didn't even
need to rev it up
asian girl gets shanked while Ozzy man
chooses it upstairs and doom girl
seemingly no clips to get up there
before him the other team retreats with
the only survivors they found which are
dr. Veronica and the bassist chaplain
while the captain who was right behind
them likes behind for no reason they
really wanted him to die didn't they but
he gets to use his super shotgun for
about two seconds before getting
overwhelmed by zombies where's Captain
he's
[Music]
how could they not have heard or seen
all of that taking place right down the
corridor from what back on the ship the
AI has a showdown moment I'm sorry
Morgan but I can't let you leave I'm
sorry Dave I'm afraid I can't do that
where have I seen this before oh right
yeah
interchangeable guy finds dr. Petruchio
who is playing dead and they do the dead
body jump scare again and he explains
that the portal technology they were
experimenting with was built by some
ancient aliens and the way that he
explains it is again reminiscent of
event horizon we call them gates so what
are they they make it possible to travel
from one point to another without
traversing the physical space between
them ship doesn't really go faster than
light what it does is it creates a
dimensional gateway that allows it to
jump instantaneously from one point of
the universe to another life years away
this conversation drags on for a while
and they all seem to have forgotten that
they're supposed to be on a timer you
know until the fusion reactor melts down
anybody remember that
dr. petrukha suddenly remembers and
refuses to let them abandon the moon but
doom girl tells him together as they
make their way upstairs the wounded
chaplain collapses which is their excuse
for him to have a conversation with doom
girl about the cross her mum gave her
before she died and how she lost her
faith after that happened is this really
the time to talk about this they go back
to the airlock and some of them go
aboard the ship while the rest stay
below to keep watch which is silly
because they could just go up and seal
the airlock behind them the chaplain an
interchangeable dude have a deep chat in
a failed attempt to make you care about
them before they're killed doom girl
gets attacked by a demon which throws a
fireball that causes no lasting damage
to the environment
the chaplain turns out to still be alive
and saves her from having her soul
sucked out before being killed by
another fireball which again doesn't
leave any marks the last minority left
alive gets eviscerated and that demon
only dies after being pumped full of an
entire armories worth of bullets they
all return to the ship
and seemingly don't do anything about
the AI that's obviously turned again
them that's a pretty big deal guys you
can't just ignore that
I'm afraid this ship isn't going
anywhere that's just why why isn't this
ship going anywhere
tell us Betruger suggests using the
gates to teleport to earth doom girls
like the hell with that let's wait here
for Mars to come rescue us forgetting
again about the reactors impending
meltdown
he said the reserve power is below 1%
got 30 minutes tops for lack of a better
plan doom girl decides to restore the
power to send a distress signal to Mars
and agrees with science man to not
actually use the gates the others are
like the hell will that we're not going
back in the base with those things
having immediately forgotten again that
the entire moon is about to blow up
time's wasting check your ammo reloading
take extra care to move out in five
you've got half an hour left what are
you waiting for
also does this base all their ship not
have any escape pods or emergency
shuttles in this place they get down to
the reactor room encountering no zombies
on the way this time strangely the
scientist shows off his leet hacking
skills because of course he has those as
well we're in Betruger now realizes who
doom girl is and starts telling us that
her thought was that she disobeyed
direct orders and released a dangerous
criminal he says that he read their
files before they arrived and it
wouldn't take a rocket scientist to work
out who she was so why is he doing this
now it's a clumsy attempt to add in some
half-baked exposition and increase the
tension between the characters after mr.
robot restores the power Betruger turns
out to be a villain what a shock and
seals them inside the room this might
have been averted if the soldiers didn't
have the awareness and reaction times of
a comatose slug Ozzie man and other
woman get killed by the robber demons
the assault rifles proved incredibly
ineffective but doom girls pistol which
she manages to fire 31 times without
reloading gets the job done before she
dies Veronica gives her a yellow key
card to access a secret level which of
course science guy knows about and of
course already has one and of course
forgot to mention earlier doom girl
finally gets to use the blue keycard she
picked up from that first body 45
minutes ago and finds the BFG of course
no marine calls at that
while they call it the big [__] gun
that could have been so much more
dramatic and cool but you just had to
ruin it didn't you and it looks like a
big Super Soaker with some plastic boxes
stuck to it and it doesn't even work
properly
this is not what the BFG does this is
what the BFG does get it right at this
point we find out that she let the
terrorists go because she thought she
knew best and wanted to be a hero I
really needed more information to
understand her thought process there but
that's all we get they should have come
up with a better backstory because this
one just doesn't work considering what
they're trying to do with it
they have another brief conversation to
give the scientist some more depth
before he's laughably dragged out of the
elevator and the door refuses to open
because the scientist I guess she goes
down to the secret level where we're
finally confronted with a combination of
all the slaughter that's been noticeably
absent from the upper floors while
Betruger starts monologuing she's forced
to kill the zombified scientist Betruger
monologues again which is pointless
since he announces his intent to kill
her villains got a villain
you can't kill what's already dead
except for all those other dead things
that they killed she gets pushed through
the Gateway and ends up in hell in my
opinion this is by far the most
interesting and visually impressive
scene in the movie and it's where the
CGI is at its best I'm guessing this is
where most of the budget when she
encounters a demon Lord who goes on
another villains monologue in that
Sumerian language as if she's meant to
understand it before the Horde can tear
her apart and invade earth the memory of
her mother gives her the strength of
will she needs to lay down some pain and
escape she ends up on the earth facility
because Betruger told them to open their
gate so she pleads for them to close it
but they don't and some nasty comes
through in an ending that's an obvious
sequel bate it's unclear whether there
will be a sequel despite writer director
Tony jiggly Oz enthusiasm I'd be amazed
if this film made its money back and
given how it was received I tell anyone
is clamoring for a follow-up
hell even Bethesda refused to have
anything to do with its production if
only they always exercised such a good
judgement so yeah that's doom
annihilation a film about which the most
you can say about it is that it was more
faithful to its source material than
what came before but otherwise there's
nothing to appeal to anyone except
diehard doom fanatics and bad movie
aficionados and of course youtubers
really that's it for the video but I do
have a quick announcement those of you
who've been with me a while will know
that I used to have a public discord
server which I shut down and have now
deleted well I have a new and improved
public server which you can join via a
link in the description down below we've
already got a nice little community
going on in there and I'm in there
pretty often so feel free to drop in and
as ever thanks for watching a special
shout out to my amazing supporters on
patreon if you like what I'm doing here
and want to support the channel more
directly consider becoming a patron
yourself subscribe and enable
notifications for future content follow
me on my social media to stay up to date
and I'll see you in the next one
[Music]